A government graphic meant to warn migrants against coming to the UK has left many people confused. Rishi Sunak’s Twitter account posted an image that appeared to say “if you come to the UK illegally you will be DENIED access to the UK’s modern slavery system”. It was posted as the prime minister held a press conference at Downing Street, where he stood in front of a lectern emblazoned with the words “stop the boats”, to promote his immigration crackdown. Many were left scratching their heads at the tweet, and wondering whether anyone had read it out aloud before publishing. Is this graphic boasting about the UK’s modern slavery system? Like we have the best slaves? https://t.co/7vWV5vjYHw This is one of the most unintentionally baffling pieces of government comms I have ever seen pic.twitter.com/6nfjyBa952 If you're kidnapped and brought to London to be kept as a slave, we will offer no legal protection at all.That's literally Tory policy now.A reminder that Rishi Sunak promised "integrity at every level of government" https://t.co/xT3CYwMh9n One for the “politics aside, the arrival of a first Asian Prime Minister is historic” crowd to chew on https://t.co/K0tTBOkXSa This may be the most cruel and barbaric part of this whole thing. They are deliberately legislating to leave victims in the hands of their traffickers. Punishing people for their own exploitation. This is beyond the pale, even by this government’s standards. https://t.co/NrhIES2Et0 The prime minister described his policy as “tough” but “necessary and fair” as the government unveiled plans for fresh laws to curb Channel crossings. On Tuesday, it was confirmed the laws will stop people claiming asylum in the UK if they arrive through unauthorised means. Asylum seekers arriving illegally would be detained and face a lifetime ban on returning after they were removed. They would never be allowed to settle in the country or gain citizenship. But questions remain over whether the plan is legal – with home secretary Suella Braverman admitting it may break international law as it might be “incompatible” with the European Convention on Human Rights.