People across the UK woke up to snow and ice on Wednesday, as an Arctic blast rocked the country – and Twitter was not very exactly chill about it. Weather warnings have been announced for some regions, with commuters likely to face travel disruptions, with potential power cuts and loss of access for some communities. The UK Health Security Agency has even announced a level three cold alert for the whole of England and various flights across the country have been suspended. More than 100 schools in Wales have closed due to the snow, with temperatures in Scotland dropping to a chilling -14.6C last night and -8C in north England – the UK’s coldest night of the year so far. Police have also urged drivers not to travel in southern parts of England. And, to make matters worse, the conditions are not expected to lift until the weekend. With 10cm of snow in some places (following months of pretty bleak temperatures), it’s no wonder Twitter was furious at the cold blast for arriving just as we had been expecting spring to finally make an appearance. People turned to memes, old clips of the X Factor and swearing in an effort to express their deep frustration at the weather... Snow in March pic.twitter.com/Jn6h0rYEPH Some people see snow outside, I see small talk fodder. The office kitchen won't know what's hit it today. Snowing in March, almost hard to believe isnt it. So much for global warming 🤣. No im not finished with the microwave yet Steve it's soup im not gonna eat it cold am I mate. Snow in march pic.twitter.com/qxZ53xFy3z It shouldn’t be snowing in March! It should be a glorious spring morning… NOT SNOW! pic.twitter.com/f13CWpimFH Snow in March 😒 pic.twitter.com/XVGMU5LhqM waking up to snow in march pic.twitter.com/u8VPDdlQxq Snow in March is absolutely unacceptable and quite frankly, I blame the Tories! Not this ugh. Usually im all for a dusting of snow but not in fucking March guys. pic.twitter.com/QImqHP1y76 Ffs. I do not need snow in frickin March!!!!!!!I want sunlight and margaritas! pic.twitter.com/Gu4ZPudIHq It’s arrived. Snow in March. Not sure this robin is impressed! pic.twitter.com/8hI2j6hvl1 snow in march when it’s meant to be getting warmer? this country isn’t my destiny pic.twitter.com/viKdUgQYdR snow in march was not on my bingo cards pic.twitter.com/uIzvxdqn9t Beautiful view from my window at 06:51am while I trade jpegs. Snow in London is rare, especially in March. Must be a bullish sign, do you agree? pic.twitter.com/doYd6vUiOF Get me outta here dude https://t.co/zX8cvJMQlX Not everyone was so bamboozled though, with plenty of people pointing out this is not the first time it has happened. People talk about snow in March, as if it has never happened before. Why is everyone going 'Snow in March???' It's the most likely time for snow, we've had snow in April before now, why have you all got such shit memories??? Snow in March, nothing unusual about that. I took this pic on the 8th March 2018. pic.twitter.com/zyWZpW0dDG Another year, another person surprised about snow in March