Gary Lineker’s son has said his father would not “back down on his word” and believes the sports presenter will return to Match Of The Day. In an interview with The Sunday Mirror, the former England player’s eldest son George claimed his father had been “a bit disappointed” by the BBC asking him to step back from hosting Saturday’s Match Of The Day after he compared the language used to launch a new Government asylum seeker policy with 1930s Germany in a tweet. However, he said his father had been “overwhelmed by the support” of fellow pundits who had withdrawn from various BBC sports shows in solidarity with him, particularly his MOTD co-presenters Ian Wright and Alan Shearer. George Lineker told The Sunday Mirror: “Dad is a good man, a good human, and I’m proud of him for standing by his word. That’s why he was pulled off the show – because he wouldn’t apologise. But he will always speak up for people who don’t have a voice. “He is passionate about helping refugee charities – he took in two refugees who he is still in touch with and trying to help. “It means a lot to him to stand up for people whose only hope is to escape a country with only the clothes on their back. That’s why he’s been so firm. “Will he go back to Match of the Day? I think so – he loves Match of the Day. But he won’t ever back down on his word.” Saturday’s Match Of The Day aired for only 20 minutes and did not include accompanying commentary or analysis from pundits or even its famous theme tune – instead broadcasting only short highlight clips of the day’s matches. Ahead of the show starting, a continuity announcer said: “Now on BBC One, we’re sorry that we’re unable to show our normal Match Of The Day including commentary tonight. But here now is the best action from today’s Premier League matches.” Several of the broadcaster’s other football shows were pulled at the last minute on Saturday as more presenters and reporters withdrew, with neither Football Focus nor Final Score airing – while 5 Live’s radio coverage was radically altered throughout the day. The BBC director-general apologised for the disruption caused to the broadcaster’s sports programming, but confirmed he will not resign over the Lineker impartiality row. EXCL: The BBC Director General Tim Davie has apologised for the disruption caused across sports programming after removing @GaryLineker off air.I put to him trust is a key value of the BBC, many don’t trust him - but he says he is not resigning.Coming up @BBCNews @BBCWorld pic.twitter.com/tNpVibkPpX Tim Davie told BBC News in Washington, DC on Saturday: “I’m very sorry for the disruption today. It’s been a difficult day and I’m sorry that audiences have been affected and they haven’t got the programming. “As a keen sports fan, I know like everyone that to miss programming is a real blow and I am sorry about that. “We are working very hard to resolve the situation and make sure that we get output back on air.” The director-general said that he would not go into too much detail about the discussions being had, but that “everyone wants to calmly resolve the situation”. “I would say Gary Lineker is a superb broadcaster. He’s the best in the business, that’s not for debate,” he added. “To be clear, success for me is: Gary gets back on air and together we are giving to the audiences that world-class sports coverage which, as I say, I’m sorry we haven’t been able to deliver today.” Mr Davie also said that he does not feel this is about “left or right” politics, but about the corporation’s ability to balance free speech and impartiality, adding: “We’re fierce champions of democratic debate, free speech, but with that comes the need to create an impartial organisation.” Asked if he would resign as “there are many people in the UK that simply do not trust you”, Mr Davie said: “Absolutely not. “I think my job is to serve licence fee payers and deliver a BBC that is really focused on world-class, impartial landmark output – and I look forward to resolving this situation and looking forward to delivering that.”