Just as we were drying our eyes over The Last Of Us stars Pedro Pascal and Bella Ramsey’s recent Twitter love-in, we’ve had to reach for the tissues again. The two actors play the duo Joel and Ellie in the dystopian drama, based on the video game of the same name, and have made no secret of the affection they share for one another off screen. Fans have obsessed over Pedro and Bella’s real-life friendship ever since The Last Of Us debuted back in January. Prior to the show hitting our screens, Bella revealed she had received a card from Pedro in an interview that has since resurfaced now that the drama has become a huge global hit. Bella told USA Today: “I shot for a whole year, which is quite a long time when you’ve only lived for 19 years. “Pedro wrote a little card to me at the end, saying, ‘How interesting that something so huge and life-changing should happen so early in your life and so late in mine.’ I thought it was a really sweet observation and I just had the best time.” Awwwwww! Earlier this week, the official Last Of Us Twitter account shared a video of Pedro heaping praise on his young co-star. “Bella Ramsey plays Ellie – I call her Bellie – and she’s my blessing,” Pedro said in the clip. “It was just a match made in heaven, and I love her.” Baby girl Bellie. @bellaramsey #TLOU pic.twitter.com/aGhhOTQMFG Bella agreed: “Our relationship has definitely developed as Joel and Ellie’s relationship has. We’re good buddies.” After the clip was posted, Bella shared it on her own page, writing: “HOW I MISS YOU I really really miss you. My Pedge.” There’s just one more instalment to go in the first season of The Last Of Us, following the dramatic events of episode eight, which also featured a cameo from a familiar face (or, at least, a familiar voice). Fans needn’t be too bereft, though, as a second run was confirmed before the first was even finished airing. The first eight episodes of The Last Of Us are now available to watch on Now, with new episodes every Monday. HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Prices and availability subject to change.