Looking for a bit of Hollywood escapism this weekend? Well, you’re in luck, because Oscars night is officially upon us. After an awards season that’s brought us surprise wins at the Grammys, viral moments at the Baftas and emotional scenes at the SAG Awards, it’s almost time to find out which A-listers will be taking home Academy Awards in 2023. And best of all – unlike most major US awards shows – the Oscars is actually available to watch here in the UK. Here’s the rundown on how you can keep up with all things Oscars… Disappointingly, the E! coverage of the Oscars red carpet isn’t available to watch in the UK as it usually would be, but that doesn’t mean we have to miss out. Sky Showcase and Sky News will both be airing their own footage of the red carpet from 11pm on Sunday night, interviewing nominees and star guests, as well as keeping everyone up to speed with who’s been seen making their way into the event. For those who don’t have Sky, make sure you’re following HuffPost UK on Sunday night, as we’ll also be bringing you constant updates from the red carpet. This will also be shown on Sky Showcase and Sky News in the UK from midnight onwards, as well as Sky Cinema and Sky Arts, with US talk show host Jimmy Kimmel taking over from last year’s hosts Amy Schumer, Wanda Sykes and Regina Hall on presenting duties. For those who don’t fancy staying up until the wee small hours just to watch a load of famous people getting even more famous, it’s worth noting that highlights from the ceremony will be airing on Sky Cinema at 7pm on Monday, which will then be repeated on Sky Showcase, Sky Max and Sky Arts at 8pm. This will be available to watch on demand, too, from around 7pm. It’s also worth mentioning that Now subscribers with a Cinema or Entertainment membership pass will also be able to watch the night live (if you’re not already subscribed, you can also sign up for a seven-day free trial). And again, make sure you’re following HuffPost UK on Oscars night, too, as we’ll be covering the event live and reporting on all the news stories you might have missed from the big event. First of all, it may well end up being a slightly less chaotic ceremony than last year’s, with a specific “crisis team” having been drafted in after a certain event during the 2022 Oscars.  With regards to the nominees, it’s not exactly a great year for British stars (shout-out to Bill Nighy, though!). However, a number of HuffPost faves are in the running for awards including Michelle Yeoh, Paul Mescal, Angela Bassett, Austin Butler, Brendan Fraser and Cate Blanchett. It’s also a big year for first-time nominees, with Brendan, Austin, Paul, Bill and Michelle all receiving their first nod in 2023, as well as Barry Keoghan, Hong Chau, Kerry Condon and Ana De Armas. Going into this year’s event, Everything Everywhere All At Once is leading the charge with 11 noms, and while it proved popular at the Golden Globes and Critics’ Choice Awards, it went without a major win at the Baftas – so we’ll have to wait and see just how popular it’s been with Oscars voters... HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Prices and availability subject to change.