We’re just days away from a brand new series of The Apprentice, and this time around producers are going bigger and better with more candidates than ever before. The 18 hopefuls who’ll be put through their paces in a bid to secure a life-changing investment from Alan Sugar have now been unveiled – and perhaps more importantly, so have their introductory one-liners. “I’m the James Bond of the business world…” Meet this series’ candidates – they’re better than ever.Brand new #TheApprentice on #iPlayer from 5 Jan at 9pm pic.twitter.com/nhwXZpIpb0 So, grab yourself a cup of tea and get to know the candidates ahead of The Apprentice’s return on Thursday evening…  From: London Current job: City banker He says: “Lord Sugar’s investment will help me escape the rat race of a banking job. I’m the hardest working rat he’ll ever meet.” From: North Yorkshire Current job: Director of a construction company He says: “A lot of people in business – I’m not saying everyone – have inherited their businesses, this is not the case for myself. I was made redundant in 2019 and now, we’re turning over half-a-million, which is something I’m immensely proud of.” From: Hertfordshire Current job: Salon owner She says: “I’m a different kind of business owner, which is a lot more relatable to people. That is really what I would like to promote as a person, that business is something that doesn’t need to be fancy words and suits.” From: Leicestershire Current job: Financial controller She says: “I know the dreams I want to achieve. There’s only one Denisha Kaur… I’m a woman who wants to create an empire and have it all; to be able to provide for my family and to be an inspiration to young women.”  From: County Kildare Current job: Senior account executive She says: “I will do anything to succeed... I am confident that whether I win the investment from Lord Sugar or not, I am going to make my company one of the most successful ideas to ever come out of The Apprentice. Watch this space.”  From: Shropshire Current job: Owner of an online antiques marketplace He says: “My motto is: ‘Life is a waste of time, and time is a waste of life. So if you get wasted all the time, you’ll have the time of your life.’”  From: Worcestershire Current job: Safari guide in South Africa He says: “I’m the James Bond of the business world. I’ve got the acumen. I’ve got the experience. And I’m pretty sure I’ve got the looks as well.” From: Dublin Current job: Accountant He says: “In short, I can be a little outspoken, so [my biggest weakness is] probably not knowing when to shut up.” From: London Current job: Owner of a pest control company He says: “I’m very talkative with the charm to match – I can sell to anyone. I’ve been around the world and have met hundreds of different people, from members of the royal family to celebrities. I can always speak to them in a confident manner.”  From: London Current job: Court advocate She says: “I deserve Lord Sugar’s investment because I have given my blood, sweat and tears to my business. I think that taking the experience I have in the boxing industry and all the experience that he has in the business industry, together we would be a winning combination.”  From: East Yorkshire Current job: Owner of sweet shop and café She says: “No matter what situation I am thrown into, I will always give one hundred percent truth, even if it’s hard to hear. I always believe that honesty is the most important thing in business.”   From: Glasgow Current job: Owner of a theatre school He says: “I’m here to prove that Scotland is filled with forward-thinking entrepreneurs and that we are not in fact a haggis-eating, kilt-wearing nation.”  From: Bedfordshire Current job: Owner of a hair salon and academy She says: “I’m always being compared to the Kim Kardashian of the business world because I’m doing business with a hint of glam.”  From: West Yorkshire Current job: Owner of a bridal boutique She says: “My USP is the fact that I’ve got a million-pound business, that might hopefully be a multi-million-pound business in the coming months!” From: London Current job: Tech recruiter She says: “My USP is my ADHD, which means I can process information faster than others. This often means that my reaction time is quicker, and I look at things differently.”  From: Birmingham Current job: Senior sales rep He says: “My biggest weakness is that I’m a perfectionist, I always want to get things right.”  From: Southampton Current job: Owner of a martial arts school He says: “Owning a martial arts business means Lord Sugar can learn how to kick ass for free.”  From: Merseyside Current job: Owner of an online sweet shop She says: “As a former flight attendant and now a business owner, my customer service skills are unrivalled. I know what consumers want. I’ve travelled all over the world and I’m not afraid to take on a challenge.” The Apprentice returns on Thursday night at 9pm on BBC One.