Daniel Craig has responded to calls from fans for the Muppets to join him in the next instalment in the Knives Out series. Glass Onion, the sequel to the original Knives Out film, debuted on Netflix just before Christmas, and has already proved hugely popular on the streaming service. Because of that, people have already begun speculating about which stars could join Daniel in the third film in the series. And given the festive timing of film number two, a lot of film fans already had the Muppets on the brain, suggesting the gang could be perfect co-stars for the former James Bond actor when he next plays Benoit Blanc… Ok, so for the next Benoit Blanc film, hear me out: pic.twitter.com/Q36nnK0N5Z hear me out...Knives Out 3: A Muppets Murder Mystery pic.twitter.com/LdXR2XyLlV i would pay good money for a knives out muppets crossover #KnivesOut #GlassOnionKnivesOut pic.twitter.com/KOAHp5oKVT Look, a Muppets / Knives Out mystery comedy musical is simply a must at this point. I know it. You know it.Just imagine Interrogation Song in that beautiful Benoit Blanc drawl! https://t.co/Zg2QL5fvry pic.twitter.com/roBGw7nVcF I'm just saying,@rianjohnson, Knives Out: Muppets pic.twitter.com/zvqFnlyPrw Muppets Knives Out with Jennifer Coolidge and Daniel Craig as the only human characters. Next question. https://t.co/KMgodX745f If Benoit Blanc meets the muppets I desperately need him to treat it like it’s just a normal thing. I don’t wanna hear any “my word it appeauhs that I am conversin with some sort of living puppet creatures” I just want him to be like “Kermit I’ve heard so much about you” I love that we've already reached the stage where we are assuming there's going to be a Muppets Knives Out movie, and are now just discussing the practicalities of it. https://t.co/DtsEaaJ3Ar Reading the 7,000th “make Knives Out 3 all Muppets” post as if they’re the first one to think of it and wondering if I spend too much time here pic.twitter.com/B0JHo8lepa During an on-screen Q&A with the full cast of Glass Onion, director Rian Johnson was asked whether every Knives Out film would feature “terrible people in beautiful locations”. “That’s our bread and butter,” he joked, with Leslie Odom Jr then bringing up the popular suggestion that the next film would be “Benoit Blanc with the Muppets”. [Benoit Blanc voice] it appeahs these parTICulah inqu’ries came diRECtly from the most curiously predisposed fans, as it were pic.twitter.com/yn4T0RxPwf “That’s a pretty good idea,” Rian responded, with Daniel agreeing: “That’s a really good idea!”  However, in an interview with Netflix’s official publication Tudum, Rian admitted fans probably shouldn’t get their hopes up. “It’s a joke that I thought was pretty brilliant, and I ended up really giving [it] some serious thought,” he explained “As much as I take the murder mystery genre seriously, I take the genre of a Muppet movie seriously.” Sadly, Rian then concluded: “You can either have a Benoit Blanc mystery that has Muppets in it, but they’ll feel out of place. Or you can have a Muppet movie that Benoit Blanc is in, but it’ll feel like a Muppet movie. “I wouldn’t want to compromise either of them. And I feel like in order to make it well and make it work, you’d have to make a choice and compromise one or the other. “If I ever make a Muppet movie, I just want to make a great Muppet movie.”  The idea is super fun and I don’t want to be a party pooper BUT… (also worth reading the whole thing because the photos in this piece are pretty freakin great) https://t.co/KTF3QWtMZI it's my understanding that disney loves to share its intellectual property with anyone who asks, and at no cost Well now that I have this in writing from you Dave… For anyone who is looking for some new Muppet content in 2023, we’ve got some good news for you. Later this year, the new series The Muppets Mayhem will debut on Disney+, taking the form of a mockumentary series centred around the Muppet theatre’s house band The Electric Mayhem. As well as the Muppet favourites we all know and love, the series will also star Lilly Singh as A&R executive Nora, who is tasked with trying to land the Electric Mayhem their first ever platinum album.