Terrifying new research has revealed just how long you have left to live, based on where you stay in the UK. The study, carried out by care experts Guardian Carers, analysed ONS data to reveal how much longer people are expected to live for from the age of 40 across the UK.  Their findings, which a spokesperson for the company described as “concerning”, has uncovered a shocking difference between the life expectancy of those living in the north and south of the UK. Both men and women are expected to live for longer if they live in London, with the top three areas for life expectancy located in the English capital. However, cities such as Glasgow, Manchester and Liverpool featured in the bottom ten. According to the results of the study, there is more than a decade’s life expectancy gap between a 40 year-old woman lives in Kensington and Chelsea and one who lives in Glasgow.  On average, women who live in the high end London borough are expected to live for another 48.64 years, while a Glaswegian woman has just 39.33 years to go. Glasgow City also ranked the worst for men’s life expectancy: a 40-year-old in Westminster has on average another 45.49 years of life ahead of them, while their Glasgow counterpart has just 34.76 years. Researchers have said that these results indicate “major problems in social, economic or health-related factors”.  Tina Woods, CEO of Business for Health, told the MailOnline: “We aren’t talking about a difference of a couple of months here; there are years being shaved off people’s lives and it’s down to regional health inequalities and income deprivation. “Reduced life expectancy occurs when people have limited access to health care, experience a lower standard of care and practice more risky health-related behaviours such as smoking. “Many of these factors are influenced by wider determinants such as income, housing, environment, transport, education and work therefore tackling health inequalities requires an understanding of the interaction of these factors to help implement measures and effective support systems in place.”