Gather the biggest names in music together under one roof and you’re pretty much guaranteed an eventful night. But with a big US awards show like the Grammys, once you’ve skimmed through the list of winners and picked your favourite red carpet looks, it can be hard to keep track of what else went down. Fortunately, we’ve got you covered. From historic wins to must-see performances, here are all the key moments you might have missed from the 2023 Grammys… ‘I want to thank all the incredible transgender legends before me who kicked these doors open’ — Kim Petras and fellow ‘Unholy’ singer Sam Smith become the first-ever trans and nonbinary artists to win a Grammy in the Best Pop Duo/Group Performance category pic.twitter.com/SGSyUtbYHc LOVE to see Jayla Sullivan getting this incredible moment -- she is a trans woman from Portland who was part of "Lizzo's Watch Out For The Big Grrrls"#Grammys pic.twitter.com/RB0d49NEO4 This gospel version of special is SPECIAL! I love Lizzo. A true talent! 💓#Grammys pic.twitter.com/pC4i3QYCFX Kid Harpoon introduzindo a performance de Garry, mais conhecido como HARRY STYLES! #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/sbtFD3vubX Disfruten del speech que dió #Madonna esta noche en los #GRAMMYs traducido al español ❤️ pic.twitter.com/CUIasGdccl Trevor Noah with a Prince Harry jab at the Grammys:“James Corden is a 12-time Emmy winner and the host of the Late Late Show. “He’s also living proof that a man can move from London to LA and not tell everyone about his frostbitten penis.”#GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/pio9NrEOCF Mary J Blige Preforming Good Morning Gorgeous at the #GRAMMYs I loved this performance down! pic.twitter.com/Sptr9ijOm7 Trevor Noah asks Taylor Swift to ask her Fans to get 'them' to handle the price of eggs...  This after her fans took on Ticketmaster: ‘Swifties... Price of Eggs, Down!’ pic.twitter.com/HV0kmb9qMk Busta Rhymes performing at #GRAMMYs and his full verse from “look at me now”!!! LIVE!! pic.twitter.com/qJ585tGuaR .@Adele gets emotional during her #GRAMMYs acceptance speech as she dedicates her win to her son Angelo. 😭#GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/QKrcExw9Ld Bonnie Raitt’s reaction to winning Song of the Year is everyone’s reaction to her winning Song of the Year #Grammys pic.twitter.com/HYcMZK00hc Screaming at Lizzo pulling a tiny flask out of her purse and taking a big swig after losing Song of the Year, then going on to win Record of the Year approximately 30 seconds later. #Grammys pic.twitter.com/mzXjffiYNz adele was nominated in the same category and that's how she reacted to lizzo's win. she's so genuine 😭❤pic.twitter.com/k9IiG6VjV1 Oh, and let’s end on one moment that didn’t happen, in case you were wondering... Sorry, folks.