The stars were out in force at Sunday night’s 64th Grammy Awards, which will go down as one of the most memorable year’s in the annual music event’s history. Beyoncé became the most-awarded artist in Grammys history, with her four wins taking her tally to a record-breaking 32 Grammys, and man-of-the-moment Harry Styles took home the highly-coveted Album of the Year award for his third long-player, Harry’s House. Viola Davis became only the 18th star in history to reach EGOT status, adding a Grammy to her mantelpiece alongside her Oscar, Emmy and Tony awards, and Kim Petras became the first transgender artist to win the Best Pop Duo/Group Collaboration Grammy. There were also gongs for Adele, who won her 16th Grammy, as well as Lizzo who won Record of the Year for her global hit, About Damn Time, and her speech upon collecting her gong was one of the most joy-filled of the evening. With so many firsts, there was so much to celebrate, resulting in a truly joyous night... at the end of the day beyoncé made history and won 4 grammy’s she won regardless it was her night pic.twitter.com/0npBu2WbRK things Beyoncé achieved tonight:–first black woman to win best dance album–first Beyoncé album to win Grammy’s without visuals–most awarded grammys artist of ALL TIME pic.twitter.com/Og9SUNzI2T Beyoncé wasn’t even alive when the Grammy’s were established and she has now won the most amount of awards in ceremony’s history. the work ethic? excellence? ohhhh we will NEVER get another her At this point, no one is EVER gonna have 32+ grammy's EVER again but Beyonce. watching the grammy’s is really fun when you’re on everybody’s team bc there’s never any disappointment and you get to watch the timeline collapse while stans call each other ugly I love twitter on grammy’s night 🏼 it’s so fun Im sorry the Grammy’s brought back my award show fever the audience was love, people are having fun, like this has been an amazing night. Grammy's going all out with this Hip Hop Celebration!  Love seeing the artists having fun and the evolution from the last 50 years! Selfie as Beyoncé casually makes herstory 🤯 pic.twitter.com/UPzPdcaaPP Beyoncé cheering for Lizzo!! #Grammys pic.twitter.com/BhLGXDZhsH ICONS ✨ #GRAMMYs @lizzo @Adele @Beyonce pic.twitter.com/AGVE1s3kD8 Lizzo filming Harry winning at the 65th #GRAMMYs  in Los Angeles, California - February 5 pic.twitter.com/gw61DQUNx4 seeing lizzo and adele sat on the same table at the grammy’s and having the best time ever together has actually soothed my soul i feel so enriched looking at them together Adele and Lizzo becoming besties and having so much fun watching the Grammy’s together is the best thing that’s ever happened to me Harry really looked like he was having so much fun on the Grammy's stage Kim Petras thanking Sophie during her winning the first ever Grammy won by an openly transgender woman (Wendy Carlos was closeted at the time she won) in the year that trans rights are under attack more than ever in history...Yeah, I cried.Thanks @kimpetrasYou deserve it. pic.twitter.com/ncsa2CWUTa Can we appreciate for a minute (or more if you like) the crowd of musical icons who lept📽️ to applaud #kimpetras as she declared herself the first trans person to win a Grammy. Not least #TaylorSwiftTix #AffirmTransChildrenpic.twitter.com/aKlm8o5i9O i’m a bit behind but MAN i’m CRYING watching kim petras’ acceptance speech!!! @kimpetras not a dry eye in the house. congratulations!!! 😭💕 Hold the line !!!!!!! Viola Davis just became EGOT #18 !!! Omg @violadavis U are absolutely everything ! Congratulations to a living LEGEND. Time to celebrate !!! pic.twitter.com/jwZZeY9y3a nothing but respect for MY EGOT winner Viola Davis who actually won every award for actually performing (not producing) which is way rarer than you think!! a true queen! Wake UP Viola Davis is EGOT STATUS Viola Davis becomes the third Black woman in HISTORY to achieve EGOT status, following Jennifer Hudson and Whoopi Goldberg! #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/or4vYNhsJP .@lizzo reacts to winning Record of the Year for #AboutDamnTime at the #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/zZhlWcnNWx “Beyoncé, in the 5th grade I skipped school to see you perform. You changed my life. The way you made me feel, I was like, ‘I want to make people feel this way with my music.’ You clearly are the artist of our lives!”—Lizzo accepting the Grammy for Record of the Year pic.twitter.com/U0H7sAV6Z0 Not me crying over lizzo’s acceptance speech  LIZZO’S ACCEPTANCE SPEECH?? 😭 Lizzo’s speech was so cute 🥰 YOU BETTA FCKN SING LIZZO FAWK #grammys pic.twitter.com/7vHwi8mxKW ABSOLUTE CHILLS: A well-deserved standing ovation in response to Lizzo’s amazing performance at #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/HQxLaBvujX however bad of a day you’re having, I promise you’re not as miserable as Ben Affleck at the Grammys right now pic.twitter.com/OQxA54H9P1 pic.twitter.com/8NsdWvUUYW Why does Ben Affleck have such a strong resting misery face 😩 at the Grammy’s looking dead inside SHSSHSH Ben Affleck looks like he wants to be at home, watching The Last of Us, but got dragged to the Grammy’s instead.