It’s always a bit awkward accompanying a partner to their work thing. Actor Ben Affleck embodied that slightly bored, slightly uncomfortable energy alongside his wife Jennifer Lopez at the 2023 Grammy Awards on Sunday night.  J-Lo made a surprise appearance at the award show to present the Grammy for Best Pop Vocal Album to Harry Styles. The Let’s Get Loud singer and entertainment industry titan wore a dazzling navy and silver Gucci gown to the event at the Crypto.com Arena in Los Angeles while her husband wore a classic black suit. As the camera panned to the couple throughout the night, viewers couldn’t help but notice Ben standing stiffly by his wife’s side as she bopped along to the star-studded performances. however bad of a day you’re having, I promise you’re not as miserable as Ben Affleck at the Grammys right now pic.twitter.com/OQxA54H9P1 Ben Affleck checking the clock on the wall #Grammys pic.twitter.com/NcSYlH5Hf2 Ben Affleck would rather be anywhere else than front row at the #Grammys2023 watching Stevie Wonder crush Higher Ground pic.twitter.com/82GwqZneNW us: enjoying some of the best music motown has put out. ben affleck: pic.twitter.com/qQm274YVye someone get ben affleck a cigarette and a dunkin coffee stat pic.twitter.com/5Es3pxjBZF Ben Affleck is every introvert everywhere. You can see his batteries draining in real time. Man is already at 23%  #GRAMMYs #SaveBen pic.twitter.com/Yv5zmzbPhr Ben Affleck at the Grammys is me any time I have to be on a zoom call.  pic.twitter.com/V2eZZ14qos Whoever keeps cutting to Ben Affleck as he gets more and more exasperated, thank you Ben Affleck ten seconds from mouthing the word "help" directly into the camera. Ben Affleck looks like he’s thinking about the best sandwich he ever ate in his life and then remembering that place closed down. pic.twitter.com/BUC9trJUEb Ben Affleck during a commercial pic.twitter.com/lzKtdUdfUa Ben Affleck is absolutely texting his group chat full of guys named Fitz, Little Fitz, and Barfo stuff like "Can't talk. At a work thing with Jen." from the Grammys. ben affleck every time jlo tells him they need to go out #Grammys   pic.twitter.com/xi89ucWPw8 Ben Affleck giving off big “Only sober guy at a wedding where you know nobody other than your wife” vibes. pic.twitter.com/hCQHH3K4X1