Claire Foy has opened up about how she felt after discovering she was paid less than co-star Matt Smith on The Crown. The actor’s portrayal of a young Queen Elizabeth in the Netflix drama won her two Emmys and a Golden Globe. However, in 2018 producers revealed she had earned her less than her male co-star, who played her on screen husband, the Duke of Edinburgh. The 38-year-old, who first heard about the gender pay gap when it made national headlines, told the Guardian’s Saturday magazine that she wasn’t shocked, but was “very upset”. “I wasn’t shocked. I was very upset. Not like, boohoo, crying upset. I was very upset,” she said. The British star, whose latest film Women Talking has been nominated for Best Picture at this year’s Academy Awards, said she had not “allowed” herself to get angry about the gender pay gap row at the time. “I really love my industry, and I think it is made up of lots of honourable, incredibly talented, brilliant, imaginative, amazing people,” she said. “Sometimes, you see something, you hear something, you notice something, or something happens to you, and you just go, ‘Oh God, what am I doing? Why am I doing it? Should I be part of this?’. I found it really heart-breaking.” The Crown controversy came shortly after US actress Michelle Williams made headlines when it was disclosed that actor Mark Wahlberg earned 1.5 million dollars (£1.1 million) to re-film portions of All The Money In The World to erase actor Kevin Spacey, while his female co-star reportedly received less than 1,000 dollars (£728). The actor then announced that he was donating the money to Time’s Up – an initiative to help those who have suffered sexual assault, harassment or abuse in the workplace. pic.twitter.com/jvGDGVZqPQ Speaking about being thrown into the eye of the pay gap storm, Claire said: “Suddenly I was getting asked all these questions and being encouraged by certain people involved to be the spokesperson for it. “I was like, ‘Absolutely fucking not’. “I just think everybody wanted me to behave in a certain way, in response to it. And I didn’t. ‘It’s fine! It’s absolutely fine what happened!’. That’s what I think they wanted me to say. “I mean, it’s so hard. I don’t think I should be honest about certain things about it, because I don’t think it would be helpful. It would add more fuel to it. We’re still talking about this, however many years down the line. “I know the extent of it. I still went back on the show. If anything, I just didn’t want my experience of the show and what we all did on it to be overshadowed.” At the time, Left Bank Pictures publicly apologised to both Claire and Matt and took responsibility for setting the salaries before pledging to do better. Claire, who said the pay row has subsequently had an “amazing impact” because “you can’t lie now”, has since reprised her role in the fifth series of the show, appearing during a flashback episode showing the late Queen’s visit to Clydebank in 1953 to launch the Royal Yacht Britannia. The Crown saw her portray the Queen in the first two series of the Netflix show before Olivia Colman took over for series three and four, while Imelda Staunton is the star of series five and six.