Certain parts of the world were treated to a real show this week when Venus, Jupiter and the moon aligned for any stargazers. All three were visible in the night sky, clearly displayed in a straight line, during a pretty magical occasion – known in official terms as a “conjunction”, this phenomenon is not that rare, but it is breathtaking. The two planets appeared on either side of the crescent moon, aided by the clear weather on the western horizon. Venus was the brighter one which appeared lower in the sky. The view appeared just after sunset, and comes at a time in the lunar cycle when 8% of the moon’s surface was lit up. The UK Space Agency said it came about because the two planets are getting closer. By the start of March, they’ll look like one in the night sky from Earth even though they’ll still be (very) far apart. It was said to be particularly beautiful above Wales – and comes shortly after a Welsh island called Ynys Enlli, or Bardsey Island, was officially recognised for having one of the best night skies in the world. So here’s some of the most beautiful pictures taken by stargazers in Wales, when the conjunction was visible to the UK. In conjunction tonight; from left to right - the Crescent Moon, Jupiter, Venus.@DerekTheWeather @DrJeniMillard #BreconBeaconsNationalPark pic.twitter.com/oBYcS9y8fY Dark skies: Venus, Jupiter and the Moon pictured across Wales  https://t.co/X9Cp2Ttvi1 pic.twitter.com/a9XwP74VS6 Jupiter, The Moon and Venus, from the valleys of Wales 🏴🌚 pic.twitter.com/xNh0sPT8lN Cowbridge…Last night’s combination of Jupiter, the moon and Venus below; then Jupiter & 3 of its moons…then tonight with the moon highest, Jupiter & then Venus. Tonight I could capture 4 possibly 5 of the moons of Jupiter with my camera! @alexberesfordTV pic.twitter.com/zH9i8hGrwd The Moon, Jupiter and Venus perfectly aligned above Wales last night pic.twitter.com/AxzsnbqQ8I But it wasn’t just Wales. Other parts of the UK, Africa and even in Australia spotted the spectacular display too. The moon, Jupiter and Venus all aligned over North Devon. So cool! pic.twitter.com/o2yuKqwmwo The moon, Jupiter and Venus as pictured from the Dinnington Docks pub on the Fosse Way in South Somerset, 23rd February 2023. Here to celebrate my godson reaching adulthood pic.twitter.com/9O2BQMg9Jm Venus, Jupiter and the moon lining up above the Washington coast. I will never not be in love with living on this planet. pic.twitter.com/9mtCbKBKWd Rare alignment of Moon Jupiter and Venus from yesterday’s sky in Delhi, India📷 Picabuzz pic.twitter.com/0zV7yeUZuA Moon, Jupiter, and Venus holding a meeting over Kathmandu skies - Hope it is not to discuss Nepal's new President 😊. pic.twitter.com/zgAQY7XcFW