You’re reading Love Stuck, where trained therapists answer your dating, sex, and relationship dilemmas. You can submit a question here. ‘Money, money, money can be funny in a rich man’s world’ Abba once sang, but it can also ruin relationships. Everyone has their own personal relationship with how they handle finances. You have people who are quite tight with money, then you have those who will splash out at any given opportunity.  And then there are people who have toxic relationships with money through addictions like gambling - something which is the case for Simon’s partner. “When is enough, enough? I love my wife and have one amazing child and 17 years of marriage. We share a home and many of the same friends. Life is pretty good viewed through that lens,” he tells HuffPost UK. According to Harvey, “it’s important that you look after yourself in relation to this situation, get support, friends, family, and others you may trust might be a good place to start. “There are a number of organisations that offer support for both addicted gamblers and affected others. Counselling with someone that understands addiction might also be a good option for you, to have support and a space to explore the situation and ways forward. “If you feel able to, being there to support your wife to seek recovery and make changes could be very helpful to her, and communicating to her your concern and desire to help at the same time as being clear around boundaries sends a clear but firm message to her, that help is available, but the gambling is not acceptable to you. “The fact that your wife is, at times, able to see the harm of her gambling suggests she might be open to change, if she is open to it, explore with her sources of support, information and ways she might make some changes around her gambling.” Love Stuck is for those who’ve hit a romantic wall, whether you’re single or have been coupled up for decades. With the help of trained sex and relationship therapists, HuffPost UK will help answer your dilemmas. Submit a question here.