All the stars came out last night for this year’s Baftas. 2023 nominees included actors and actresses like Michelle Yeoh, Paul Mescal, Angela Bassett, Emma Thompson, Viola Davis, Eddie Redmayne, Carey Mulligan and Daryl McCormack. However, despite this list including a wide range of talented actors, viewers noticed a pattern amongst the winners yesterday – the majority of them were white.  Yes, the world of film and tv is still not as diverse is at it should be. Films like Everything Everywhere All At Once and The Woman King highlight not only the talent of people of colour but that films with a majority ethnic cast can sell out in the box office. So why were they snubbed? Viewers were not happy and this is what they had to say about it on Twitter.  This is from 2020. In a year when Michelle Yeoh, Angela Bassett, and Viola Davis deliver historic and exceptional performances, the BAFTAs awarded almost completely (maybe completely?) white actors only. SIDE EYE. https://t.co/fNOFx1qHBs #BAFTAs might of tried to ensure nominees are diverse but if they haven't got a shot of winning what's the point? Of course the film with an all white male cast wins best film and half the awards... baftas nominating sm ppl of colour and preaching about diversity just to give awards to the white as bread actors #BAFTAs I was disappointed with the BAFTAs tonight. Nominating 10 POC but all 4 winners were white? 🙄 Hope it doesn’t repeat at the Oscars. Nominating isn’t enough. Disgusted at the #BAFTAS tonight. They are gesturing with nominees, performances and presenters, just so they can self-congratulate the great white wave of "winners". Truly vile - worse than obvious racism. the poc talent in the categories and yet all we have seen is white people but it’s british awards so are we surprised! #baftas pic.twitter.com/Yi82K0VCJZ #BAFTAs might of tried to ensure nominees are diverse but if they haven't got a shot of winning what's the point? Of course the film with an all white male cast wins best film and half the awards... The BAFTAs weren’t ashamed to put on an awards show knowing all the winners were white? this award season has not been very fun like first the viola and danielle snubs in best actress and now baftas so white. lord give me strength. Even with diverse options, the BAFTAs still managed to give every major award to a white person. Flavorless. Bland. Predictable. 🥱 49 people took home #EEBAFTAs tonight.47 of them were white.2 of them were Latinx.0 of them were Black.0 of them were Asian.0 of them were Indigenous.Fascist island strikes again! #BAFTAs2023 #BAFTAs Of course we cannot take away from talented white artists and actors but time and time again people of colour are shown that they have to work two or three times harder than their white peers to be recognised.  Here’s hoping the awards shows learn from hashtags like #oscarssowhite and #britssowhite and do better next year.